Add a guide of plugging in CA cert to istiod and update CA documents (#6644)
istio/istio.io: content/en/docs/tasks/security/ca-config/plugin-ca-cert/index.md

    - /docs/tasks/security/plugin-ca-cert/
---

> In Istio 1.5, Citadel is linked with Pilot.

Reviewer: can this be reworded?   Should it be something like Istio CA from citadel is merged into istiod?

Reviewer 2: +1 - I don't think users whould see 'Citadel' or 'Pilot' in any new docs.

Reviewer 3: Why is this needed at all? It's an implementation detail. How about just remove this line and change the following line to:
```
This task shows how operators can configure the Istio certificate authority with an existing root certificate, signing certificate and key.
```
You also should change all occurrences of `Citadel` to `Istio's CA` in the rest of the doc.

Author: Done.

This task shows how operators can configure Citadel with existing root certificate, signing certificate and key.

By default, Citadel generates self-signed root certificate and key, and uses them to sign the workload certificates.
Citadel can also use the operator-specified certificate and key to sign workload certificates, with
operator-specified root certificate. This task demonstrates an example to plug certificates and key into Citadel.

> ## Plugging in the existing certificate and key

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Plugging in an existing certificate and key
```

Author: Done.

> Suppose we want to have Citadel use the existing signing (CA) certificate `ca-cert.pem` and key `ca-key.pem`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Suppose we want to have Citadel use an existing signing (CA) certificate `ca-cert.pem` and key `ca-key.pem`.
```

Author: Done.

  You must use these specific secret and file names, or reconfigure Citadel when you deploy it.
  {{< /tip >}}

The following steps plug in the certificates and key into a Kubernetes secret,
which will be read by Citadel:

1.  Create a secret `cacerts` including all the input files `ca-cert.pem`, `ca-key.pem`, `root-cert.pem` and `cert-chain.pem`:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl create namespace istio-system
    $ kubectl create secret generic cacerts -n istio-system --from-file=samples/certs/ca-cert.pem \
        --from-file=samples/certs/ca-key.pem --from-file=samples/certs/root-cert.pem \
        --from-file=samples/certs/cert-chain.pem
    {{< /text >}}

> 1.  Deploy Citadel with `global.mtls.enabled` set to `true` and the `demo` profile.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1.  Deploy Istio using the `demo` profile and with `global.mtls.enabled` set to `true`.
```

Author: Done.

    Citadel will read certificates and key from the secret-mount files.

    {{< text bash >}}

>     $ istioctl manifest apply --set profile=demo --set values.global.mtls.enabled=true

Reviewer 4: Same as other, remove `--set values.global.mtls.enabled=true`

Author: This guide requires mTLS (e.g., mTLS between sleep and httpbin sample services). If removing "--set values.global.mtls.enabled=true", how to make sure that mTLS is enforced?

    {{< /text >}}

## Verifying the certificates

> In this section, we verify that the workload certificates signed by the root certificates plugged in.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In this section, we verify that workload certificates are signed by the certificates that we plugged into the CA.
```

Author: Done.

This requires you have `openssl` installed on your machine.

> 1. Deploy the `httpbin` and `sleep` example applications.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Deploy the `httpbin` and `sleep` sample services.
```

Author: Done.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl create ns foo
    $ kubectl apply -f <(istioctl kube-inject -f samples/httpbin/httpbin.yaml) -n foo
    $ kubectl apply -f <(istioctl kube-inject -f samples/sleep/sleep.yaml) -n foo
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Retrieve the certificate chain of `httpbin`.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl exec $(kubectl get pod -l app=sleep -n foo -o jsonpath={.items..metadata.name}) -c istio-proxy -n foo -- openssl s_client -showcerts -connect httpbin.foo:8000 > httpbin-proxy-cert.txt
    {{< /text >}}

>     Open `httpbin-proxy-cert.txt` created in the above command and save the three certificates in it

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    Open `httpbin-proxy-cert.txt`, which was created with the above command, and save the three certificates in it
```

Author: Done.
